---
title: "Dante's Inferno: A Guide to the 9 Circles of Fracture"
date: 2025-10-16
permalink: /posts/2025/10/9circles-phasefield-fracture/
tags:
  - Elastic Brittle Materials
  - Phase-Field
  - Fracture Mechanics
  - Computational Mechanics
  - Finite Element
---
Happy to share that our paper, "Nine circles of elastic brittle fracture: A series of challenge problems to assess fracture models," is now published in *Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering* (CMAME) and can be accessed [here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cma.2025.118449).

As the title suggests (inspired by Dante's Inferno), this work introduces nine different challenges (each a circle of hell!) as a way to assess the viability of any computational approach to fracture (and not necessarily phase-field). These challenges span the complete range of fracture nucleation and propagation mechanisms.

What I value most about this work is the shift toward cumulative, reproducible science rather than ad‑hoc demos. Too often, new methods look good on a couple of picked benchmarks and quietly fail elsewhere. We propose a clear approach: meet the minimum across these challenges, and then the model is viable to pursue more.


Having faced this myself, I know how easy it is for a researcher to be interested in the topic yet lost among incomplete approaches. I hope this work helps identify the key challenges and pave a clearer path for the science.

The paper is also accompanied by a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/farhadkama/FEniCSx_Kamarei_Lopez-Pamies) and a [Data bank](https://doi.org/10.13012/B2IDB-6684845_V1) containing the data and mesh files to further facilitate the use of these challenges.
